Project Goal :Presently operating the vending machines is not user-friendly and it is observed to be time consuming as well.Our project goal is to increase the scope and quality of the vending machine services provided to the people. 

Project Objective 1:
People use coins or paper money while operating the vending machines due to which there arises a problem when the user does not seem to have exact change with him.
Performance Measure :
Online (cashless) payments are made available for the users for easy purchase of items.

Project Objective 2:
The vendors are not aware about the stock required in the vending machines when excess usage of the products occur.
Performance Measure :
Vendors are well informed about the stock management of the machine and are also aware of the customers past transactions.

Project Objective 3 :
Finding a vending machine in new locations everytime becomes difficult for people.
Performance Measure :
The users are notified about the presence of the vending machine available in their current location using the Web Bluetooth API.

Online payment for vending machines made possible and stock record maintained on the cloud for dynamically updating the vendor. Modules of the platform will include a firmware where hardware is used,cloud communication and a frontend available for users as well as for vendors respectively.
The software entities used are Web Bluetooth API,Linux,Eclipse(mars).
Web bluetooth is the technology in which a bluetooth enabled device is used to flash url which can notify people about a thing in the area ,This is a way towards making things speak .
This device is placed at the vending machine and configured to flash a particular url using Seripheral Interface from the controller .
The controller is wifi enabled ,so cloud communication is done using aws_iot js sdk on the device .
The cloud communication also happens at the user side for  payment and then the cloud notifies the vending machine that payment is done and vending machine disposes the product.

